From a Hansel minutes.com. It's
Hansel minutes. Oh, weekly discussion
with web developer and technologists.
Scott Hanselman. This is Lawrence Ryan
announcing the show. Number three
72 recorded live Thursday, May 16th, 2013.
Support for Hansel minutes is
provided by Tellerik offering the
best in developer tools and
support online@telerikdotcomandbyfranklins.net makers of gesture
pack a powerful gesture, recording
and recognition system for Microsoft
connect for windows developers details@gesturepak.com.
In this episode, Scott talks
with Troy hunt about the
state of web security. Hi,
this is Scott Hanselman. This
is another episode of Hansel
minutes and I've got security
guy, Troy hunt on the
phone. How are you? Hey,
Scott. I'm really good. Thanks.
Have you broken into anyone's
wifi today? No, not today,
but it's still early yet.
So we will see how
it pans out. I've been
freaking out since I've been
reading your stuff about wifi
and breaking into it. I
mean, I knew that that
WEP WEP is not a
good way to, you know,
kind of set up my,
my wifi and I've, I've
gone to my parents house
and I've changed them from
WP to WPA. And anytime
I see a neighbor or
a family member or friend,
I switched them over, but
I'm still a little concerned.
How, how insecure is wifi?
Yeah, look, it's, it's an
interesting question. I mean, I'm
unlike you, we've sort of
moved through the web era
and we're into the WPA
two era. And I think
to be honest, as a,
as a consumer and particularly
as a, as a home
user, you know, that's about
the best we can do
today. We, we picked WPI
two and we try and
have a nice strong passcode
on it. So it can't
be too easily grouped forced.
So that's easy. I mean,
the, I guess the more
interesting bit is, is what
happens with all of our
devices that are still trying
to connect to unsecured networks.
And that's where some of
the research I've been doing
has been hitting. That's the,
that's the thing that keeps
me awake, but what is,
what do I tell my
wife? What do I tell
the nontechnical portion? I want
to get a sense of
the paranoia slider bar and
where, where should I be
and where should my family
be? So I think there's
two sides to look at
it. So in, in terms
of, for those of us
setting up access points, I
mean, we've got WPA to,
and again, you know, we
put a strong passcode on
that and that's about the
best we can do. But
the other side of it
is what other networks are
our devices connecting to? Because
what a lot of people
don't realize is that when
we connect to an access
point, our device then walks
around broadcasting this little pro
signal, looking for that access
point again in the future.
Now, when that access point
that you've connected to may
have been insecure. So no
web, no WPI, just an
open network. That's where we
start to get a real
risk because we can have
these other nasty sneaky devices,
which is the sort of
thing I've been writing about.
Stand up and say, Hey,
I'm the access point that
you're looking for? Come on
board. And they connect and
they have a little relationship.
And as far as the
device knows, it's talking to
nine network. Okay. So hang
on a second. You're saying
that rather than maintaining a
list of my favorite access
points, my preferred access points,
and then simply attaching to
one when it sees it,
which seems like a fairly
harmless and passive thing that
all the wifi devices in
the world actively announce They're
looking for. Yeah. So what's
happening and you know, whether
it's your phone or your
tablet or your PC, when
you make an association to
a wireless access point, the
way the device reconnects, when
you come home and you
walk in the front door,
as the device is sending
out these little probe requests
and the saying, Hey, is
my network. There? Is it
there? The access point receives
the probe request and responds
and says, Hey, I'm look,
I'm the guy you're looking
for. And that's when the
association happens. Now, there's nothing
wrong with that. And there's
obviously like a massive convenience
factor to be able to
just walk home and things
work where it gets interesting
is that if one of
those access points had no
security whatsoever, there is a
vulnerability where another device, and
this is this pineapple thing
I've been running about can
go and actually spoof that
SSI D so it can
say, Hey, I'm, you know,
Scott's home a welcome on
board let's connect. And because
there is no handshake, there's
no sort of authentication process
the association is made. And
that's the real interesting risk,
But how does it know?
So what is the protocol
that is, that is faulty
here that is saying that,
you know, let's say Hanselman
is the SSI ID that
I want. Like, how do
they know? Like I can
understand if someone is parked
in a van out front
of my house, broadcasting free
wifi, that someone might connect
to that because Hey, free
wifi. But how would they
ever know that I, that
my device Hanselman. Yeah. And
of course that would be
an explicit action. If you
saw free wifi and you
said, Hey, I, you know,
I want to get on
board with this. Let's go
and grab some. So how
the device knows or, or
how the rogue access point,
if you like. And that's
probably the best word to
use. So say an attacker
says, look, I want to
try and get Scott to
connect to my access point
without any explicit action whatsoever.
When you walk past with
your phone, you phone saying,
where's the handsome and SSR
day. Where's the answer when
SSR day and it keeps
sending out this probe request.
Now the device, the rogue
device can detect this probe
request and it can say,
Hey, I'm going to change
my SSI ID. So it
reads handsome. Now, if your
phone wasn't expecting to make
an authenticated request or wasn't
expecting to sort of go
through an authentication handshake, I,
it was an open network
and I credentials that's when
the association is made. So
that's where the risk is.
And the real story, if
your original question about how
do we, as consumers protect
our devices, the simple answer
is don't connect to unprotected
networks because that's where this
risk comes from. So even
if you go to the
airport and Hey, there's airport
free wifi you'll then go
somewhere else with your phone
and your phone saying, Hey,
where's the airport free wifi.
And if a rogue access
point can receive that and
say, well, I'm going to
tell you that on the
airport free wifi. That's when
the problem comes. I see.
So if I went to
the airport and someone knew
I was going to be
there, could they have a
Hanselman honeypot waiting for me?
Or that's not a problem?
Cause Hanselman is not a
open wife. Well, I think
you probably write on both
fronts. So, you know, like
me, you've probably got WPI
two protections. So the device
is expecting to authenticate. It's
expecting to go through this.
They call us for way
handshake, which is part of
the ADA two 11 protocol.
And it's not going to
happen because the access point,
isn't going to be able
to complete its side of
that, that authentication process. But
they don't have to sort
of be there waiting for
you. I mean, if you
go to any busy place
and turn on of these
rogue access points, you'll see
all of these probes come
from, you know, hundreds and
hundreds of probes come from
people around you. You're looking
for these access points. Yikes.
Okay. So then the solution
is never ever connect to
anything that is not authenticated
that I control. Yeah, pretty
much. Or if you do
forget that network, because it's
the automatic association and even
then forgetting the network, it
depends on the device. So
something like an iOS device,
it's easy to forget a
network when you can see
it, when you can't see
it, you can't forget it
because you've got to be
able to select a network
which is currently in range.
So for something like iOS
you've then got to sort
of go back and delete
all your network settings. If
you're on a macro PC,
at least you can go
and see all of the
devices or rather all of
the wireless access points that
you've previously connected to. And
you can sort of, you
know, selectively nuke them. And
they tell you, you know,
was this access point a
secured or not? Right? But
on windows eight, that dialogue
has gone. The, the wireless
settings dialogue you used to
be able to get to
is gone. You can't delete
old networks anymore. Oh really?
So, you know, I hadn't
looked at eight. I know
that previously we couldn't, I
know you can't on OSX,
but yeah, that is interesting
because that then puts you
back in the iOS category
where your only option then
is to say, well, I
just got to delete everything,
Right? Because on windows you
can right click and say,
open network settings here. You
can say network and sharing
center. But on the left
hand side that used to
say change, adapter, settings, change,
advanced sharing settings. And then
there was one for wifi
that's gone now. And windows
eight. Interesting. I wonder if
it still exists under the
covers somewhere and you've just
got to, We should, we
should look into that because
if there's a way to
maybe launch that dialogue box
programmatically, just like the dialogue
is there, but it's been
hidden away. That that would
be really interesting. Cause I
have seen times where I've
had, you know, 40, 50
wifi points from all the
airports all over the world,
just sitting there. Yeah. And
the, you, that's the really
weird thing Too, because you
go back to somewhere, you
haven't been for a while
and you look down and
you go, Hey, I've got
signal. You know, what's going
on? Was I here before?
Right. So it sounds like
removing automatic Romano, automatic association
completely would be a good
start. Like it's a convenience,
but it's that implicit action
that gets us into trouble.
Well, you know, it depends
on the context because I
want to be able to
come home each day and
I'm connected. I want that
to work. That's a convenience
that has a security aspect
to it because I trust
my home network, but I
also want to be able
to maybe use a public
network somewhere, be selective about
the services I use and
then not have it automatically
reconnected from stopped in the
traffic at the front of
the McDonald's or something like
that. If I go now,
I've always had people say,
I should use SSL and
HTTPS for all of my
logins. And a couple of
years ago, maybe 18 months
ago, Twitter and Facebook and
Google. And a lot of
people just switched to HTTP
HTTPS by default. And you
know, certainly if you're logging
in somewhere and you're about
to hit submit, and it's
not under HTTPS, then you
probably have a problem. That's
not somewhere you want to
spend time with. But if
I have connected to one
of these honeypots or if
I am associated with a,
an evil rogue network that
HTTPS may not matter, what
would it mean that it
may not save me? Yeah.
So here's the interesting thing.
And for me, looking at
wifi is not because I
want to break people's networks.
It's because from a developer
security perspective, I'm interested in
what is the risk to
web applications when the connection
can't be trusted. So, you
know, you're right in so
far as HTTPS is, is
really the key there. And
really actually Pierce is there
to save us. In fact,
I should have asked is
there to do several things,
but one of the key
things is it's there to
save us when we can't
necessarily trust the transport layer.
So if you are connected
to a rogue access point,
is that web application sufficiently
implementing HTTPS, that is someone
is able to intercept your
traffic. They're not able to
do evil with it. Okay.
What if they're using one
of these new devices you've
been talking about this wifi
pineapple, what is this? Yeah,
so the pineapple is, is
this little piece of equipment.
That's making things quite interesting
for me. So the pineapple
is a little device. It's
about the size of a
cigarette pack. They sell it
for a hundred dollars. You
get it from the hack
five shop online. It is
sold for quote unquote penetration
testing purposes. I suspect it's
not always used for penetration
purposes and penetrations detection purposes.
So, you know, the thing
about the pineapple, it's a
little device that again is
quite small. It has an
aerial. So it's got its
own wifi access point. It's
got an ethernet port and
it runs a little version
of open WRT embedded Linux.
And it's really tiny little
computer, which is able to
perform the sort of activities
we were talking about before
with regards to rogue access
points. So for example, when
I turn the pineapple on
and you compare it by
battery, so you can just
Chuck it in your pocket
or your bag or something,
it will start looking for
these probe requests from devices.
So if you walk past
and your device says, Hey,
I'm trying to connect to
free airport wifi in Seattle.
This device will get that.
And it will say, okay,
well, I'm going to turn
around and I'm going to
tell Scott that I am
free wifi, you know, free
airport wifi in Seattle. And
I'm going to allow that
association to happen. Now, if
an attacker can then route
the traffic that you're sending
to that device through to
an actual open internet connection.
So for example, if we
take that ethernet port, plug
it into your laptop with
connection sharing, we can now
route your traffic through the
device. So this device becomes
a man in the middle
and when it's a man
in the middle, it can
see any unprotected traffic that
you're sending. So there's sort
of a confidentiality risk. It
can manipulate any unpredicted traffic
you're sending. So there's an
integrity risk. It can maybe
change the path or change
the form action of a
log and form. And really
it can, it can pretty
much mess with anything you
send across that connection. Wow.
Okay. But is it, it
is not a wifi point
or it is a wifi
point in the middle. It's
just there to be evil.
Yeah. Correct. It's a wifi
point in the middle. And
in fact, one way you
can use it as just
as a normal wifi access
points. So, you know, to
your earlier example, you could
set it up to have
a, an SSI D that
it broadcast, which just says,
Hey, I'm free wifi. And
if you go somewhere, that's
busy enough with enough people
like a cafe where people
want to sit and browse
and they open up their
wireless connections and they go,
Hey, there's free wifi and
it's not protected. We'll just
jump on that. Now what
they don't realize is that
any services they're connecting to,
whether that be via the
browser, or maybe any apps
talking to backend web services,
if those services don't have
a proper implementation of HTTPS,
then they can be intercepted.
And like they manipulated, Wow,
is this something that I
should, does this only exist?
The pineapple itself will, again,
that the theory is it's
for penetration testers. And I
think it's look, it's really
question of intent. So for
me, I'm not evil with
it for me, I'm using
that to then write about
when you don't follow particular
good practices in your web
development, this is the way
it can be exploited. So
for me, the value proposition
is that this helps materialize
a risk that I think
for many people is very
conceptual. You know, a lot
of people say, Hey, it's
just, you know, we're just
sending some cookies around and
it's not a right CDPs.
Can it really be exploited?
And this is the little
tool that helps me do
that. Now, of course, other
people might go along to
the airport or the coffee
shop and proxy people's traffic
through and capture all the
packets they possibly can and
harvest credentials so that, you
know, there's definitely potential for
misuse. So speaking as a,
as a technical person who
wants to be safe on
the web, and maybe this
is beyond the average Joe
and their abilities, but should
I be using VPN, should
I be paying a VPN
company for security on top
of security? Should I be
VPN back into my home
and then surfing from there,
or purchasing a private network
or even running my own
Linode instance and doing proxying
through that? Yeah. Well, VPNs
is one thing that certainly
fixes this. Well, it, it
fixes it in so far
as if there were websites
that would otherwise leave you
vulnerable. At least if you
have an encrypted network between
your device and an end
point somewhere else, that is
trusted, you know, you've got
that security. So if someone's
sitting there on the wifi
in the middle, they're not
going to be able to
gain access to that traffic.
And certainly there are tools
around, I mean, there are
products like cloak, I've been
hearing a bit about lately,
which is designed to run
on devices, such as eye
phones and tablets and whatever
else it may be, where
you can say, Hey, I'm
going to connect to a
network. And whether I trust
it or not, I'm going
to turn on cloak, turn
on the VPN, and then
we're going to be safe,
at least until it gets
to whatever end point cloak
has somewhere in their own
servers. And isn't that something
like Tor or is cloak
different from tour. Cause cloak
is a paid project. That's
a company that you pay
the money and a tour
is more of a distributed
kind of a elite thing.
Yeah. And, and tools really
more about anonymizing than anything.
So, you know, we particularly
see toy used for political
dissidence or other people wanting
to do evil things where
they really want to obfuscate
identity. And my understanding is
that tour also has some,
some pretty serious limitations in
terms of speed and capacity
as well. So it's, it's
kind of a different use
case, but certainly in, in
the case of where we're
talking about, Hey, I wanna
use, I want to use
it and I'm going to
be cautious of way I
say it. I want to
use a network where I
may not trust everyone between
myself and the target service
that I'm hitting. You know,
that's a good VPN case
and that's not about, I
want to, I want to
hide my identity. It's about,
Hey, I want to protect
my traffic. But if I'm
just using Gmail and connecting
to my work's outlook and
surfing the web, does it
matter if someone's watching? I
mean, if I'm over at
Gmail and I look at
my shirts in the browser
and it looks legit, do
I have anything to worry
about? Well, I mean, this
is what sort of brings
us back around to the
fact that this is really
only a risk that is
exploited when web applications are
not properly protecting the traffic.
And g-mail certainly does a
good job of that. I
mean, these guys do know
a thing or two about
securing web applications, and it's
the same if you're using
outlook.com, it's the same. If
you're using most banks with
some exceptions, you know, it's,
it's not too, not too
bad when you're using applications
that implement things correctly. And
that's the real trick. And
again, why I've even got
the panel to begin with
yet, are we getting our
HTTPS right in our applications
to begin with? Okay. So
what is the, the obvious
thing that a, you know,
some startup who is launched
today, they're taking a break,
they're listening to Hansel minutes
and they forgot to do
it. Yeah. There's a few
common patterns. And you know,
obviously the first one is,
is that when you send
anything of any sensitive nature
across the web, whether you're
sending it to the server
or you're receiving it back
in the other way, you
do want to send that
across a protected connection. So,
you know, if you're not
logging in and seeing a
padlock icon in your address
bar, and that doesn't sort
of light up and show
a valid certificate, you know,
that that would be a
problem, but that's pretty low
hanging fruit. I think most
people tend to get that
right where things start to
be a little bit more
greasier, there's a few patterns
that we seem to keep
seeing again, where people think
they're secure, but they really
pose a risk. And a
really good example is often
you'll see, log on forms
that are loaded over HTTP.
So there is an un-encrypted
connection. And then the form
action is an HTTPS address.
And I'll say a lot
of cases where people sort
of bring this to their
attention. So someone will tweet
a company and say, Hey
guys, you know, you're not
protecting your form and they'll
come back and they'll say,
aha, but we are because
when we post it, your
password is protected when it
is sent to our server.
Now, the problem is, is
that you do not know
that it is actually sent
to them, Right, without doing
a F of a view
source. How could you know?
Well, it's not just that.
So, I mean, let's imagine
that it is sent to
this server and the format
is still the same, but
because that form has been
loaded over HTTP, some man
in the middle and we'll,
let's be gender agnostic. Somebody
in the middle has managed
to inject a script into
that page. And that script
is going to take your
credentials and also send them
off to an attacker's server.
Now, this sounds very hypothetical,
but there was a case
of this. In fact, there
are many cases of one
that was a sort of
very high profile is a
couple of years ago when
there was a lot of
political uprising in Tunisia. Facebook
was still serving log-on forms
over HTTP and posting about
city peers. And there were
cases documented cases. And we
have the script to demonstrate
this where the  were
injecting script into that login
page. So people were logging
into Facebook and it seemed
just fine. But what they
didn't realize is that the
page had been manipulated the
login page and their credentials
were being siphoned off to
the side as well. Okay.
So what if I visit
a page and I get
those warnings that I ignore
that say, you know, some
of the things on this
page were not loaded securely.
Yeah. So yeah, this is
the, you know, part of
the problem. I think we
sort of desensitize people a
little bit to warnings at
times because we do see
them so frequently. So that
one you're probably referring to
there is what we'd refer
to as mixed mode, where
you've got both HTTP and
HTTPS on the page. So
let's say for example, you
load a page and it
has an HTTPS address and
the page loads over HTTPS.
Now that gives you confidence
in the integrity of that
page as returned by the
request, I've actually pissed. So
that's fine. Now the page
then goes and puts jQuery
on the page, but it
requests it from the query,
a CDN hosted by Google
and it requests it over
HTTP. Now that's when you
get the warning because the
browser says, although this page
loaded securely, it has got
assets that have been embedded
on the page that weren't
led securely. Now the risk
is particularly with Java script.
You got to ask yourself
if I could control the
Java script on this page
and because it wasn't loaded
securely, I might be able
to do that. What could
I do? So, you know,
if I can control the
JavaScript, I can start accessing
the Dom turning things on
and off grabbing anything from
cookies, changing link pals, or
form actions. You know, you
can do just about anything
if you can control that
JavaScript. Interesting. So does that
mean that I should use
the protocol lists a URL
where instead of saying HTTP
or HTTPS, I say just
slash lash and then I
let the browser figure it
out for newer browsers. Yeah.
So protocol relative URLs are
a good way of fixing
that. So, you know, if
we start looking at it
from the developer side, what
does the developer do? Avoiding
explicit schemes when you're embedding
any contents. So, you know,
rather than saying that my
image source, so my script
source is HTTP comforters Ford
slash like you say, starting
with a whack whack, which
should be a protocol relative
URL, which will then, you
know, you can then reference
another domain. So you can
say, you know, whack, whack,
you know, Google cdn.com and
it will get it over
HTTP when the page, the
parent pages, letter ratio, DP,
or actually DPS, if it's
loaded over a secure connection.
So that's one option. And
then if you're embedding content
from your own site, just
using relative URLs, you know,
starting the path with a
whack and then, you know,
directory and then, then asset
name. So that fixes that.
But the important thing is
to avoid explicitly hard coding
and HTTP address, because that's
where the problem comes from.
I've noticed people talking about
package managers like new get
and gems and NPM, these
package managers that developers use
to go to a central
location, a trusted central location
and, and download some stuff.
And people have complained that,
Oh, well that that's not
using HTTPS. And then the
guys who run the package
manager system will switch that
to use HTTPS, but they're
not checking that it is
in fact, the, the SSL
certificate that they want it.
How important is that if
I'm making a web services
call or a connection to
a location, and I say,
Hey, I, I used HTTPS,
what's the problem, right? I'm
under SSL. How important is
that? Not just certificate revocation,
but certificate identity. Yeah, it's,
it's a good question. And
in fact, I see that
a lot on mobile apps.
So one of the things
that I'll often do from
looking at mobile apps is
our proxy it through Fiddler.
So Fiddler is an HTTP
proxy tool, free product, which
you can run on your
PC, set up your, your,
a wireless device to connect
via that proxy and then
inspect all the traffic that
goes from your wireless device
across the network. So I'll
configure that, and then you'll
fire up an app that
should send out a securely,
but you see this data
appearing in Fiddler because Fiddler
is able to issue its
own self sign certificate. So
it's not a valid certificate
issued by a valid certificate
authority. It's just a way
of, like you say, sort
of keeping an HTTPS connection.
Now, a lot of apps,
like some of the banking
apps, for example, you know,
banks are usually pretty good
at this sort of thing.
They'll basically just drop the
connection on the device. They'll
say, Hey, look, we can't
get through because inevitably they're
validating the certificate. They're making
sure that it is legitimate
for that particular domain. Some
of them will even validate
the signature on the certificate
and make sure that it
actually reconciles to the one
that was originally issued. So
they have sort of a
further verification process, but the
worrying bit is some of
these apps will simply say,
let's make an HTTPS connection,
regardless of what happens with
the certificate. Let's just accept
whatever comes back. Now. I'm
sure that that made it
really easy during development time,
because you could self sign.
You didn't have to worry
about any of this sort
of stuff, but to your
point, it still sort of
allows a man to get
in the middle and say,
Hey, well, I'm just going
to send you whatever else
certificate. I like. And if
your app isn't actually validating
that it's correct, then you've
got a problem. Right? So
in that instance, you're, you're
trusting that the communication is
secure, but you have no
idea who you're talking to.
Yeah, pretty much because all
you're doing is saying, Hey,
it's, it's actually passed. It
must be good, but there's
no, actually, you know, there's
not really a process of
saying is this is the,
a certificate. Good. And that's
something our browsers do by
default. And that's great. But
a lot of the time
with mobile apps, people do
configure them that way. And
I'm sure it's the same,
you know, when we're sort
of connecting through the package
managers, if there's not an
explicit process of saying, Hey,
are we happy with this
certificate? That's one, we've got
a problem. It seems like
it's a, it's a problem
with HTTPS and SSL as
a concept for the users
that they think it means
security. And it means privacy.
And trying to explain that
to a user is, is
pretty difficult. You know, I
look at it as, as
meaning several different things and
this probably doesn't make it
a whole lot easier for
users either. But the sort
of the first way I
look at it is that
it is authenticity. So if
we can get a valid
certificate back and we can
expect it, inspect it, and
we know that it's issued
by the site that we're
connecting to it, you know,
it's got their, their information,
the certificate that gives us
confidence of who we're connecting
to. So there's your, your
authenticity. The other side is
the integrity. So, you know,
moving beyond just privacy, how
can I have confidence that
the information on the page
hasn't been changed now that
doesn't always mean that it's
going to be sensitive information.
It may just simply be
that we want to have
a high degree of confidence
as a website owner. And
maybe you can sort of
pick some government examples. You
know, it could be a
case for this where the
data hasn't been manipulated. So
since an integrity piece as
well, and then there's the
third piece, which is what
you've just mentioned in terms
of privacy as well. And
I think that's what most
people expect to see from
it. They expect to see
privacy, but there is also
this assumption, like you say,
where if I can see
a padlock in the address
bar, that means we have
security and it's, it's really
a little bit misleading and
it's kind of a difficult
concept to explain to people
too, isn't it where, Hey,
look, it actually means these
very particular technical constructs. It
doesn't mean that everything you
do on this website is
going to be super safe.
Right? Right. Well, people watch,
you know, layman's watch spy
movies and someone says, is
this a secure line? You
know, they're not saying, does
this line have to have
security, integrity, privacy? It's, you
know, they just, Oh, it's
a secure line. So we're
cool. And I remember when
a browser toolbars and browser
address bar has turned green,
you know, about 10 years
ago in the high, Hi,
I trust what was the
name of those Evie SSL?
The extended validation certificates. Yeah.
Yes. Extended validation. And I
remember myself personally going to
banks all over the U
S convincing them that they
needed to get those certificates.
They're super expensive. And they,
they basically involve someone visiting
your, your data center and
proving that you're real people.
And there's a lot of
faxing. And just generally going
around that around to prove
that you're who you say
you are, but I feel
like other than the large,
you know, kind of the
top 100 sites plus banks,
most people don't take the
time to get those certificates.
So they're really quite useless.
Yeah. It's a funny thing.
Actually. I heard someone say
recently that the extended validation
certificates were getting a lot
cheaper and it's a little
bit odd because like you
say, there's a sort of
a very extensive identity verification
process that you go through
with that. But then on
the other hand, SSL itself
is getting a lot cheaper.
I mean, you can go
to somewhere like start SSL
now and literally get a
free SSL certificate. So I
guess it stands to reason
that the visa it's maybe
coming down a bit in
price as well, which Is
a good thing or a
bad thing. I mean, if
it's, if it's easy to
prove that I am someone,
perhaps I'll just prove that
I'm a Microsoft except I'll
misspell. Yeah. So I guess
it's a question of, does
the reduction in price indicate
that there's a reduction in
due diligence or is it
simply that they're being more
competitive and you know, now
it's more highly available to
a broader range of people,
which I guess if it's
done right. Is a good
thing, but like you say,
you know, we, we don't
want to sort of make
it easy for people to
go in and spoof identities
or claim to be people
that they are not right.
I mean, I would like
as the, kind of the
owner of hanselman.com to give
visitors a sense of appreciation
of my effort or a
sense of, Hey, I guess
he doesn't understand security and
wants me to feel secure.
I would love to put
the whole thing under SSL
and under Evie SSL. But
does that provide value to,
to a blog owner? You
know, I know that I
see security consultants tend to
use PGP certificates and they
sign their email and I'm
always impressed simply because of
the amount of effort required
to get it to work
correctly. Not because necessarily that
I'm talking to, you know,
that I care about the
little, the little cert, I
just go, Oh, wow. That
person jumped through the hoops
in order to get this,
this little ribbon to show
up in his email. I
just wish I had things
that were impressive enough in
my email to require that
sort of encryption. But, you
know, the blog sites is
an interesting one. And certainly
it's been asked of me
a few times, you know,
Hey, you keep writing that
SSL, but look at your
blog, it's all HTTP. And
it's, you know, look, it
is a good question. And
I, I, I did actually
have a good think about
it. I thought, well, you
know, look, there's an integrity
question. Okay. So people could
actually change what's on my
blog. You know, really how
are you going to commoditize
that you can only get,
you know, you can only
sort of be a man
in the middle in certain
locations. If you get, you
know, a few people at
a conference on the wifi,
it's not going to exactly
be a big deal. Nobody's
sort of submitting things that
are sensitive. The best I
could come up with was
I used discuss comments on
my blog and discuss, does
seem to send their authentication
cookies backwards and forwards in
the clear, which has a
bit of a risk, but
this is something that discussed
needs to fix as well.
You know, it's something that
sort of falls back to
them. Hmm. It would be
interesting to see if you
use protocol relative URLs to
load discuss, do they have
a valid certificate? So if
you use SSL, would things
work themselves out? Yeah, that
would be a good question
that may, may well happen.
And of course you could
just embed discuss over HTTPS
and see what it does
as well. So that, that
would be a good question.
I mean, the other thing
is, you know, look, if
you're going to go to
SSL, it's a question of,
you know, many of us
like myself. I mean, I
run on blogger, for example,
I'm not sure that blogger
actually has the facilities to
support that. So short of
me going to a blogging
platform, I can run myself
and wake it up on
energy or site and put
my own certificate on it.
You know, you've got to
get support from the other
players that are involved in
the, in the blog Indeed.
And all of this requires
effort. I think that's the
takeaway that you need to
at least put thought into
it. So if you're choosing
not to do something that
you know, why you chose
not to, and it was
a conscious decision and not
simply one of laziness. Yeah.
I think that really nails
it and, and you know,
a really good example of
that is stack overflow. So
stack overflow, who many of
your listeners probably use pretty
religiously like myself when you
log on, particularly when you
log on with one of
the third party authentication providers,
everything is secure and that's
all great. And then you
get back to stack overflow
and it's all over HTTP.
So your stack overflow authentication
cookie for example, is HTTP.
If you get a man
in the middle, while you're
browsing stack overflow, they can
copy that cookie and they
can become you. So vote
things, leave ridiculous comments, you
know, I can do whatever
they want. Now in a
case like that, the guys
understand absolutely 100% what the
risk is and what's involved
in moving from HTTP to
HTTPS. So, you know, I
think that's a good example
of where they've made a
very conscious decision about what
would be involved. And in
fact, Nick Craver from stack
overflow wrote a post just
a few weeks ago. He
talks about all of the
things that need to fall
into place for a sort
of top 200 website, like
theirs to move. So, you
know, they've got to get
all their third party content
providers to make sure that
things like ads and avatars
and any inline videos or
images or circular rate CPS,
they've got to consider CDNs
and load balances and multiple
domains. I mean, there's a
whole lot of work and
it sounds like those guys
are going to go down
that path anyway, but at
least it's a conscious process.
You know, it's not just
sort of, we did this
because we didn't know. Wow.
Well, you can read about
all of these exploits and
ideas and things that Troy
is thinking about and security@troyhunt.com.
Thanks for chatting with me
again. Thanks very much, Scott.
This has been another episode
of Hansel minutes and we'll
see you again next week.